CONTRIBUTING.adoc, before:

# Contributing to JUDO

## Installing the correct versions of Java, Maven and necessary dependencies

Please make sure your development environment complies with the requirements discussed under the relevant section of the parent
project's https://github.com/BlackBeltTechnology/judo-community/blob/develop/CONTRIBUTING.adoc[CONTRIBUTING] guide.

## Code Structure

This project follows a standard Java project structure, governed by Maven, with potential Maven submodules.

**Eclipse-related submodules:**

* `/feature-adapter-asm`: Eclipse feature repository - allows us to use this as a feature for eclipse installation
* `/feature-builder-jql-asm`: Eclipse feature repository - allows us to use this as a feature for eclipse installation
* `/site`: Eclipse Update Site - all built versions are compiled as an update site.
The site definition contains the required referenced repositories required by plugins.
* `/targetdefinition`: Eclipse target definition defines the P2 repositories for all the required MANIFEST features.

The Judo update sites are based on versions, therefore all versions have their own update sites. This results in versions
being coded in the URL. The category definition in tycho is loaded as an extension, because there is no way to replace
the version numbers before tycho is activated.

For this reason, a profile is created which can replace the versions with the dependency versions defined in the parent.

The following command can be used to update the versions:

`mvn clean install -P update-category-versions -f site/pom.xml`

**Adapters:**

* `/adapter-asm`: Eclipse plugin
* `/adapter-asm-test`: Eclipse plugin test

**Builders:**

* `/builder-jql-asm`: Eclipse plugin
* `/builder-jql-asm-test`: Eclipse plugin test

## Working with Eclipse

### Plugin requirements

- m2e
- epsilon
- modeling tools

### Code generation in Eclipse
To run code generation inside Eclipse, run the MWE2 Workflow: `hu.blackbelt.judo.meta.asm.model project src/workflow/generateModel.mwe2`

Required features to be installed:

* XTend
* XText
* MWE
* MWE2

## Troubleshooting

### Running JUnit tests in Eclipse
There is a problem with Eclipse and Tycho. The classpath does not contain JUnit.

```
<classpathentry kind="con" path="org.eclipse.jdt.junit.JUNIT_CONTAINER/5"/>
```

Now a `Required-Bundle` has been added to the OSGi Manifest which is not the Tycho recommended way.

https://bugs.eclipse.org/bugs/show_bug.cgi?id=534587

### Problems with Lombok

Tycho does not support Lombok generation directly as mentioned in https://github.com/rzwitserloot/lombok/issues/285.
This will be fixed in a later version. No lombok is used in the eclipse projects, every source code file is generated.

### Problems with Tycho

Tycho 1.4.0 and below does not handle repository references inside site definitions, so all the referenced plugin
sites have to be added manually. https://bugs.eclipse.org/bugs/show_bug.cgi?id=453708

## Version Policy

Two worlds collide in this project. Maven and Eclipse have a different view about versions. While Maven is using `SNAPSHOT`
versions, Eclipse is using `.quialifier` in the qualifier part of semantic version.

Which means that: `1.0.0.qualifier` is the equivalent of Maven's `1.0.0-SNAPSHOT` notation.

To address this, the Tycho Versions Plugin is used to replace the qualifier and Maven versions for a technical version
number in every build.

## Submission Guidelines

### Submitting an Issue

Before you submit an issue, please search the issue tracker. An issue for your problem may already exist and has been
resolved, or the discussion might inform you of workarounds readily available.

We want to fix all the issues as soon as possible, but before fixing a bug we need to reproduce and confirm it. Having a
reproducible scenario gives us wealth of important information without going back and forth with you requiring
additional information, such as:

- the output of `java -version`, `mvn -version`
- `pom.xml` or `.flattened-pom.xml` (when applicable)
- and most importantly - a use-case that fails

A minimal reproduction allows us to quickly confirm a bug (or point out a coding problem) as well as confirm that we are
fixing the right problem.

We will be insisting on a minimal reproduction in order to save maintainers' time and ultimately be able to fix more
bugs. We understand that sometimes it might be hard to extract essentials bits of code from a larger codebase, but we
really need to isolate the problem before we can fix it.

You can file new issues by filling out our https://github.com/BlackBeltTechnology/judo-meta-asm/issues/new/choose[issue form].

### Submitting a PR

This project follows https://guides.github.com/activities/forking/[GitHub's standard forking model]. Please fork the
project to submit pull requests.

## Commands

### Run Tests

```sh
$ mvn clean test
```

### Run Full build

```sh
$ mvn clean install
```

Commit message:

JNG-3831: add Eclipse installation instructions [skip ci]

CONTRIBUTING.adoc, after:

# Contributing to JUDO

## Installing the correct versions of Java, Maven and necessary dependencies

Please make sure your development environment complies with the requirements discussed under the relevant section of the parent
project's https://github.com/BlackBeltTechnology/judo-community/blob/develop/CONTRIBUTING.adoc[CONTRIBUTING] guide.

## Code Structure

This project follows a standard Java project structure, governed by Maven, with potential Maven submodules.

**Eclipse-related submodules:**

* `/feature-adapter-asm`: Eclipse feature repository - allows us to use this as a feature for eclipse installation
* `/feature-builder-jql-asm`: Eclipse feature repository - allows us to use this as a feature for eclipse installation
* `/site`: Eclipse Update Site - all built versions are compiled as an update site.
The site definition contains the required referenced repositories required by plugins.
* `/targetdefinition`: Eclipse target definition defines the P2 repositories for all the required MANIFEST features.

The Judo update sites are based on versions, therefore all versions have their own update sites. This results in versions
being coded in the URL. The category definition in tycho is loaded as an extension, because there is no way to replace
the version numbers before tycho is activated.

For this reason, a profile is created which can replace the versions with the dependency versions defined in the parent.

The following command can be used to update the versions:

`mvn clean install -P update-category-versions -f site/pom.xml`

**Adapters:**

* `/adapter-asm`: Eclipse plugin
* `/adapter-asm-test`: Eclipse plugin test

**Builders:**

* `/builder-jql-asm`: Eclipse plugin
* `/builder-jql-asm-test`: Eclipse plugin test

## Working with Eclipse

### Plugin requirements

- m2e
- epsilon
- modeling tools

### Installation

In Eclipse, we can install the plugin via P2 sites.

Go to "Install new software" and add the URL of the site listed on github or the uncompressed ZIP folder. The plugin
contains the metamodel and UI provided for the default editor.

### Code generation in Eclipse
To run code generation inside Eclipse, run the MWE2 Workflow: `hu.blackbelt.judo.meta.asm.model project src/workflow/generateModel.mwe2`

Required features to be installed:

* XTend
* XText
* MWE
* MWE2

## Troubleshooting

### Running JUnit tests in Eclipse
There is a problem with Eclipse and Tycho. The classpath does not contain JUnit.

```
<classpathentry kind="con" path="org.eclipse.jdt.junit.JUNIT_CONTAINER/5"/>
```

Now a `Required-Bundle` has been added to the OSGi Manifest which is not the Tycho recommended way.

https://bugs.eclipse.org/bugs/show_bug.cgi?id=534587

### Problems with Lombok

Tycho does not support Lombok generation directly as mentioned in https://github.com/rzwitserloot/lombok/issues/285.
This will be fixed in a later version. No lombok is used in the eclipse projects, every source code file is generated.

### Problems with Tycho

Tycho 1.4.0 and below does not handle repository references inside site definitions, so all the referenced plugin
sites have to be added manually. https://bugs.eclipse.org/bugs/show_bug.cgi?id=453708

## Version Policy

Two worlds collide in this project. Maven and Eclipse have a different view about versions. While Maven is using `SNAPSHOT`
versions, Eclipse is using `.quialifier` in the qualifier part of semantic version.

Which means that: `1.0.0.qualifier` is the equivalent of Maven's `1.0.0-SNAPSHOT` notation.

To address this, the Tycho Versions Plugin is used to replace the qualifier and Maven versions for a technical version
number in every build.

## Submission Guidelines

### Submitting an Issue

Before you submit an issue, please search the issue tracker. An issue for your problem may already exist and has been
resolved, or the discussion might inform you of workarounds readily available.

We want to fix all the issues as soon as possible, but before fixing a bug we need to reproduce and confirm it. Having a
reproducible scenario gives us wealth of important information without going back and forth with you requiring
additional information, such as:

- the output of `java -version`, `mvn -version`
- `pom.xml` or `.flattened-pom.xml` (when applicable)
- and most importantly - a use-case that fails

A minimal reproduction allows us to quickly confirm a bug (or point out a coding problem) as well as confirm that we are
fixing the right problem.

We will be insisting on a minimal reproduction in order to save maintainers' time and ultimately be able to fix more
bugs. We understand that sometimes it might be hard to extract essentials bits of code from a larger codebase, but we
really need to isolate the problem before we can fix it.

You can file new issues by filling out our https://github.com/BlackBeltTechnology/judo-meta-asm/issues/new/choose[issue form].

### Submitting a PR

This project follows https://guides.github.com/activities/forking/[GitHub's standard forking model]. Please fork the
project to submit pull requests.

## Commands

### Run Tests

```sh
$ mvn clean test
```

### Run Full build

```sh
$ mvn clean install
```
